README.md, before:

# Snyk SAST Management Tool

A powerful, interactive command-line tool for auditing and managing Snyk SAST (Static Application Security Testing) settings across multiple organizations. This tool provides a user-friendly interface for enabling/disabling SAST scanning and managing SAST projects at scale.

## Features

- **Interactive Menu**: Easy-to-use numbered menu system with rich text formatting
- **SAST Toggle**: Enable or disable SAST scanning for organizations
- **Project Management**: List, export, and delete SAST projects
- **Bulk Operations**: Process multiple organizations or projects using file inputs (JSON/XLSX)
- **Audit & Reports**: Check SAST status and generate detailed reports in multiple formats
- **User-friendly CLI**: Rich output with colors, progress bars, and clear status indicators
- **Safe Operations**: Confirmation prompts and dry-run options for destructive actions

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Snyk API token with appropriate permissions

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/snyk-sast-tool.git
   cd snyk-sast-tool
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Install the tool in development mode (recommended):
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   ```

## Quick Start

1. Set your Snyk API token:
   ```bash
   export SNYK_TOKEN="your-snyk-api-token-here"
   ```

2. Run the interactive menu:
   ```bash
   snyk-sast-tool
   ```

3. Follow the on-screen prompts to:
   - Audit SAST settings
   - Disable SAST for organizations
   - Manage SAST projects

## Configuration

Set your Snyk API token as an environment variable:

```bash
export SNYK_TOKEN="your-snyk-api-token-here"
```

## Interactive Menu Usage

After launching `snyk-sast-tool`, you'll see the main menu:

```
Main Menu:
1. 🔍 Audit SAST Settings
2. 🚫 Toggle SAST Scanning
3. 🗑️  Delete SAST Projects
4. 📊 View Reports
5. 🚪 Exit
```

### 1. Audit SAST Settings

Audit SAST settings across all organizations in a group:
- Enter your Snyk Group ID when prompted
- Choose output format (JSON, Excel, or both)
- Reports will be saved with timestamps

### 2. Toggle SAST Scanning

Enable or disable SAST scanning for organizations:
- Toggle SAST for a single organization by ID
- Process multiple organizations from a file (JSON/XLSX)
- Supports organization lists from audit reports
- Interactive confirmation before making changes
- Clear success/failure feedback

Supported file formats for organization lists:
- JSON: `[{"id": "org-id", "name": "Org Name"}, ...]`
- Excel/CSV: Must contain 'id' and 'name' columns

### 3. Delete SAST Projects

Manage SAST projects with precision:
- List all SAST projects across multiple organizations
- Delete all projects or select specific ones using simple number selection
- Export projects to file before deletion
- Progress tracking for bulk operations
- Detailed success/failure reporting

Project deletion workflow:
1. View all projects with sequential numbering
2. Select projects to delete by entering numbers (e.g., "1,3,5") or type 'all' to select all
3. Confirm before deletion
4. View detailed results

Example selection:
```
1. project-1 (org-1)
2. project-2 (org-1)
3. project-3 (org-2)

Enter numbers (e.g., '1,3') or 'all': 1,3
```

Example:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli audit -g YOUR_GROUP_ID -o sast_audit -f both
```

### 2. Disable SAST for Organizations

Disable SAST for a single organization:

```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli disable ORG_ID
```

Disable SAST for multiple organizations from a file:

```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli disable --file organizations.txt
```

File format (one organization per line):
```
org_id_1,Organization Name 1
org_id_2,Organization Name 2
# This is a comment
org_id_3  # Name is optional
```

Options:
- `--file`, `-f`: Path to file containing organizations
- `--yes`, `-y`: Skip confirmation prompt

### 3. Manage SAST Projects

Delete specific SAST projects from an organization:

```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID PROJECT_ID1 PROJECT_ID2
```

Delete all SAST projects from an organization:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID
```

Export projects before deletion:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID --export projects_backup.csv
```

Delete projects from a file:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID --file projects_to_delete.txt
```

File format (one project per line):
```
project_id_1,Project Name 1
project_id_2,Project Name 2
# This is a comment
project_id_3  # Name is optional
```

Options:
- `--file`, `-f`: Path to file containing project IDs
- `--export`, `-e`: Export projects to file before deletion
- `--yes`, `-y`: Skip confirmation prompt


## Recent Updates

### v1.2.0 (2024-09-10)
- Added support for enabling/disabling SAST scanning
- Simplified project deletion workflow with direct project selection
- Improved organization and project selection menus
- Enhanced file input handling (JSON/XLSX)
- Better error handling and user feedback
- Progress indicators for long-running operations
- Improved code structure and maintainability

### v1.1.0 (2024-09-05)
- Initial release with basic SAST audit functionality
- Support for disabling SAST across organizations
- Project management capabilities

## Development

### Project Structure

```
snyk-sast-tool/
├── snyk_sast_tool/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── menu.py             # Interactive menu system
│   ├── core/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── api_client.py   # Snyk API client
│   └── utils/
│       ├── __init__.py
│       └── report_generator.py  # Report generation utilities
├── tests/                  # Unit tests
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── requirements-dev.txt    # Development dependencies
└── setup.py
```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Acknowledgments

- [Snyk API Documentation](https://snyk.docs.apiary.io/)
- [Typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/) for CLI interface
- [Rich](https://github.com/willmcgugan/rich) for beautiful terminal output

Commit message:

Improve SNYK_TOKEN handling and update README
- Add interactive token setup if SNYK_TOKEN is not set
- Validate token at startup
- Update README with correct run command
- Improve error handling and user feedback

README.md, after:

# Snyk SAST Management Tool

A powerful, interactive command-line tool for auditing and managing Snyk SAST (Static Application Security Testing) settings across multiple organizations. This tool provides a user-friendly interface for enabling/disabling SAST scanning and managing SAST projects at scale.

## Features

- **Interactive Menu**: Easy-to-use numbered menu system with rich text formatting
- **SAST Toggle**: Enable or disable SAST scanning for organizations
- **Project Management**: List, export, and delete SAST projects
- **Bulk Operations**: Process multiple organizations or projects using file inputs (JSON/XLSX)
- **Audit & Reports**: Check SAST status and generate detailed reports in multiple formats
- **User-friendly CLI**: Rich output with colors, progress bars, and clear status indicators
- **Safe Operations**: Confirmation prompts and dry-run options for destructive actions

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Snyk API token with appropriate permissions

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/snyk-sast-tool.git
   cd snyk-sast-tool
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Install the tool in development mode (recommended):
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   ```

## Quick Start

1. Set your Snyk API token:
   ```bash
   export SNYK_TOKEN="your-snyk-api-token-here"
   ```

2. Run the interactive menu:
   ```bash
   python -m snyk_sast_tool
   ```
   
   The tool will guide you through setting up your token if it's not already set.

3. Follow the on-screen prompts to:
   - Audit SAST settings
   - Disable SAST for organizations
   - Manage SAST projects

## Configuration

Set your Snyk API token as an environment variable:

```bash
export SNYK_TOKEN="your-snyk-api-token-here"
```

## Interactive Menu Usage

After launching `snyk-sast-tool`, you'll see the main menu:

```
Main Menu:
1. 🔍 Audit SAST Settings
2. 🚫 Toggle SAST Scanning
3. 🗑️  Delete SAST Projects
4. 📊 View Reports
5. 🚪 Exit
```

### 1. Audit SAST Settings

Audit SAST settings across all organizations in a group:
- Enter your Snyk Group ID when prompted
- Choose output format (JSON, Excel, or both)
- Reports will be saved with timestamps

### 2. Toggle SAST Scanning

Enable or disable SAST scanning for organizations:
- Toggle SAST for a single organization by ID
- Process multiple organizations from a file (JSON/XLSX)
- Supports organization lists from audit reports
- Interactive confirmation before making changes
- Clear success/failure feedback

Supported file formats for organization lists:
- JSON: `[{"id": "org-id", "name": "Org Name"}, ...]`
- Excel/CSV: Must contain 'id' and 'name' columns

### 3. Delete SAST Projects

Manage SAST projects with precision:
- List all SAST projects across multiple organizations
- Delete all projects or select specific ones using simple number selection
- Export projects to file before deletion
- Progress tracking for bulk operations
- Detailed success/failure reporting

Project deletion workflow:
1. View all projects with sequential numbering
2. Select projects to delete by entering numbers (e.g., "1,3,5") or type 'all' to select all
3. Confirm before deletion
4. View detailed results

Example selection:
```
1. project-1 (org-1)
2. project-2 (org-1)
3. project-3 (org-2)

Enter numbers (e.g., '1,3') or 'all': 1,3
```

Example:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli audit -g YOUR_GROUP_ID -o sast_audit -f both
```

### 2. Disable SAST for Organizations

Disable SAST for a single organization:

```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli disable ORG_ID
```

Disable SAST for multiple organizations from a file:

```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli disable --file organizations.txt
```

File format (one organization per line):
```
org_id_1,Organization Name 1
org_id_2,Organization Name 2
# This is a comment
org_id_3  # Name is optional
```

Options:
- `--file`, `-f`: Path to file containing organizations
- `--yes`, `-y`: Skip confirmation prompt

### 3. Manage SAST Projects

Delete specific SAST projects from an organization:

```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID PROJECT_ID1 PROJECT_ID2
```

Delete all SAST projects from an organization:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID
```

Export projects before deletion:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID --export projects_backup.csv
```

Delete projects from a file:
```bash
python -m snyk_sast_tool.cli delete-projects ORG_ID --file projects_to_delete.txt
```

File format (one project per line):
```
project_id_1,Project Name 1
project_id_2,Project Name 2
# This is a comment
project_id_3  # Name is optional
```

Options:
- `--file`, `-f`: Path to file containing project IDs
- `--export`, `-e`: Export projects to file before deletion
- `--yes`, `-y`: Skip confirmation prompt


## Recent Updates

### v1.2.0 (2024-09-10)
- Added support for enabling/disabling SAST scanning
- Simplified project deletion workflow with direct project selection
- Improved organization and project selection menus
- Enhanced file input handling (JSON/XLSX)
- Better error handling and user feedback
- Progress indicators for long-running operations
- Improved code structure and maintainability

### v1.1.0 (2024-09-05)
- Initial release with basic SAST audit functionality
- Support for disabling SAST across organizations
- Project management capabilities

## Development

### Project Structure

```
snyk-sast-tool/
├── snyk_sast_tool/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── menu.py             # Interactive menu system
│   ├── core/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── api_client.py   # Snyk API client
│   └── utils/
│       ├── __init__.py
│       └── report_generator.py  # Report generation utilities
├── tests/                  # Unit tests
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── requirements-dev.txt    # Development dependencies
└── setup.py
```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Acknowledgments

- [Snyk API Documentation](https://snyk.docs.apiary.io/)
- [Typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/) for CLI interface
- [Rich](https://github.com/willmcgugan/rich) for beautiful terminal output
